every woodworker wants to make a dado
for them for an arbitrary shelf we use a
technique that will make it work perfect
for any shelf very low-tech one cutter a
couple of cheap templates a cheap bit
I'm going to take a few minutes get a
perfect result every time so this is a
workpiece we want to put it in here put
a dado in this piece of oak down here on
the table first step is to just get a
piece of straight fiber board and square
it up to the working adds or the
reference edge of the of the workpiece
alright that piece won't wrote we will
use it counter with a ball bearing on
that on the shank and the ball bearings
just a little bit bigger than the cutter
by about this amount the thickness of
that paper got the working place paper
second template this beam is pretty
handy I can clamp from both sides well I
take that work out of there I make sure
it doesn't wiggle and it is it is got a
little bit of squiggle here so I got to
make sure that doesn't occur that's it
now that space has been mapped out I'm
going to have a hard time making a
mistake we've got the space mapped out
the paper and the work we're in that
space bring the router in we're going to
cut the data from both sides so I'll
waist here about a diameters worth slide
it out come back in here and just
typewriter waste this section all the
way to the other side will minimize the
breakout if we cut from both sides so I
need to put on my gear and plug this
tool in and we'll make some chips
before I undo the template I inspect the
dado and make sure there's no chips on
the edge of the template if there are
that meant the bearing bounced a little
bit also note that the cutter is a lot
smaller than the slot which means one
cutter is good for all different
thicknesses stand a little of that flash
over there and that's it so any width
any thickness any two work pieces one
cutter pretty snug dado and that's it
ever but that's real nice and close
right now in fact probably won't
tolerate much glue at all